# Rubik's Cube Simulation
### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/-dNjCxTR7AY
#### Description:
#### My final project for CS50x 2022 is a website simulating a Rubik's Cube.
#### I used HTML, CSS, and Javascript to create the website.
#### My three files are index.html, which contains the HTML and Javascript for the website, styles.css, which contains the CSS for the website, and README.md, which explains the project.
#### For my Rubik's Cube Simulation, I used a 2 dimensional representation of a cube (One face on the top, four faces in the middle, and another face on the bottom). For each face, I used CSS to create an "in-line grid" to house my 9 squares. The squares contains another CSS feature of "aspect-ratio" set as 1/1 to ensure that it is a square. The squares are all assigned an "id" in HTML containing the face the square is on and the specific square it is on. This id will be used for future functions.
#### One function my website can perform is changing colors. The standard colors of a Rubik's cube (yellow, blue, red, green, orange, and white) are the default colors set on the website. On the side bar, I put the 6 colors each as a square. When clicking on the colored square, a color picker will pop up (an input in HTML whose type is "color") that allows you to choose any color, which will apply it to every square of that color. The popping up of the color picker was created by using the "display" feature of CSS and setting it to "none" to make it disappear and "block" to make it reappear. By relating every color with a specific id, and assigning every square on the cube with a color id using an array, I can loop over the array and check if the color id matches and change the color of each square that way.
#### Another function of my website is the showing of arrows representing specific moves. I created squares for all the moves the user can perform on a cube (L, M, R, U, E, D, F, S, B) and their counterclockwise counterparts on the side bar. Whenever the user hovers over the specific square, the arrows representing the way the squares on the cube will move when performing that particular move will pop up. This is done by creating an event listener in javascript set on "mouseover" for every square that causes specific squares on the cube to have text of arrows (←, ↖, ↑, ↗, →, ↘, ↓, ↙). I use the specific the ids each square on the cube has to choose which squares to add the arrows too.
#### Another function of my website is the actual turning of the cube according to all the moves. Using the same squares as the one for showing arrows, I instead create event listeners for a "click" using javascript. Whenever the user clicks the square showing the move, the color ids contained in the array for the squares loop around to reflect the move. The colors on the cube then change to reflect the move using the specific ids for the squares.
#### The last function of my website is the ability for the computer to scramble and solve the cube. Two squares containing the text "Scramble" and "Solve" are set on the side bar. The "Solve" square is initially set as "none" in the "display" feature of CSS to hide it because the cube is already initially solved. Whenever the user makes a move by clicking a move square, the computer will check if the cube becomes solved by going over all the faces and seeing if the color id's for each face are the same using the color id array. If the cube is not solved, the "Solve" square will be set as "block" on the "display" feature of CSS to show it and the "Scramble" square will be set as "none" on the "display" feature of CSS to hide it. If it is solved, the "Solve" square will be set as "none" to hide it and the "Scramble" square will be set as "display" to show it. Whenever the user clicks the "Scramble" square by using an event listener from javascript, the computer will come up with a float from 0 to 1 using the Math.random function from javascript. It then checks if that number fits in the "less than 1/18" category, the "greater than 1/18 but less than 2/18" category, the "greater than 2/18 but less than 3/18" category etc. so that it randomly choose between the 18 moves. It then performs that move which would be the same as if the user pressed the corresponding move square. The computer does in total 40 moves and adds a 50 millisecond delay using the setTimeout function of javascript so that the user can see the cube being scrambled. Whenever the user clicks the "Solve" square by using an event listener from javascript, the computer will go through its move history array (every time a move is made from either the scramble function or user input, the id corresponding to that move is added to an array) and perform its inverse in reverse order. This will cause all the moves to cancel and thus make the cube seem like it never moved, thus a solved cube. Every time a move is made to solve the cube, it again adds a 50 millisecond delay using the setTimeout function of javascript so that the user can see the cube being solved.